PEP 688: Enhance and clarify the specification (#2917)
python/peps: pep-0688.rst

must return a ``memoryview`` object. If the ``bf_getbuffer`` slot
is invoked on a Python class with a ``__buffer__`` method,
the interpreter extracts the underlying ``Py_buffer`` from the
``memoryview`` returned by the method
and returns it to the C caller. Similarly, if Python code calls the
``__buffer__`` method on an instance of a C class that
implements ``bf_getbuffer``, the returned buffer is wrapped in a
``memoryview`` for consumption by Python code.

The ``__release_buffer__`` method should be called when a caller no
longer needs the buffer returned by ``__buffer__``. It corresponds to the
``bf_releasebuffer`` C slot. This is an
optional part of the buffer protocol.
The Python signature for this method is
``def __release_buffer__(self, buffer: memoryview, /) -> None: ...``.
The buffer to be released is wrapped in a ``memoryview``. When this
method is invoked through CPython's buffer API (for example, through
calling ``memoryview.release`` on a ``memoryview`` returned by
``__buffer__``), the passed ``memoryview`` is the same object
as was returned by ``__buffer__``. It is
also possible to call ``__release_buffer__`` on a C class that
implements ``bf_releasebuffer``.

> If ``__release_buffer__`` exists on an object,
> Python code that calls ``__buffer__`` directly on the object must
> call ``__release_buffer__`` on the same object when it is done
> with the buffer. If not, resources used by the buffer may be
> leaked until the garbage collector reclaims the ``memoryview``
> returned by ``__buffer__``. Similarly, it is a programming error
> to call ``__release_buffer__`` without a previous call to
> ``__buffer__``. The interpreter will ensure that such errors
> do not lead to memory leaks or memory safety violations.

Reviewer: The intent sounds good, but the wording is too strong. For example, if `__buffer__` acquires a lock, that's a resource that won't be released when the `memoryview` is garbage-collected. Or storing something in a global dict will lead to a resource (and thus memory) leak.

How about this?
```suggestion
If ``__release_buffer__`` exists on an object,
Python code that calls ``__buffer__`` directly on the object must
call ``__release_buffer__`` on the same object when it is done
with the buffer.  Similarly, it is a programming error
to call ``__release_buffer__`` without a previous call to
``__buffer__``.
Both errors are similar in severity to calling ``__enter__``
without ``__exit__``. The interpreter will ensure that misuse
of the Python API will not break invariants at the C level -- for
example, it will not cause memory safety violations.
```

must return a ``memoryview`` object. If the ``bf_getbuffer`` slot
is invoked on a Python class with a ``__buffer__`` method,
the interpreter extracts the underlying ``Py_buffer`` from the
``memoryview`` returned by the method
and returns it to the C caller. Similarly, if Python code calls the
``__buffer__`` method on an instance of a C class that
implements ``bf_getbuffer``, the returned buffer is wrapped in a
``memoryview`` for consumption by Python code.

The ``__release_buffer__`` method should be called when a caller no
longer needs the buffer returned by ``__buffer__``. It corresponds to the
``bf_releasebuffer`` C slot. This is an
optional part of the buffer protocol.
The Python signature for this method is
``def __release_buffer__(self, buffer: memoryview, /) -> None: ...``.
The buffer to be released is wrapped in a ``memoryview``. When this
method is invoked through CPython's buffer API (for example, through
calling ``memoryview.release`` on a ``memoryview`` returned by
``__buffer__``), the passed ``memoryview`` is the same object
as was returned by ``__buffer__``. It is
also possible to call ``__release_buffer__`` on a C class that

> implements ``bf_releasebuffer``.

Reviewer: This might be a different concern, but: what does calling ``__release_buffer__`` on such a class do?

Author: It calls `bf_releasebuffer`, if called with the same memoryview that `__buffer__` returned: https://github.com/JelleZijlstra/cpython/blob/pep688v2/Objects/typeobject.c#L7672. In fact it calls `memoryview.release()`, which takes care of ensuring that we don't double-call `bf_releasebuffer` (which would likely segfault).

Author: Would it be worth calling out in the PEP text that some calls to `.__release_buffer__()` will not result in a call to the underlying `bf_releasebuffer` slot? (e.g. if you call it twice, or call it with the wrong memoryview) I think the blanket statement that "The interpreter will ensure that such errors do not lead to memory leaks or memory safety violations" is sufficient, but happy to add more detailed wording.

Reviewer: IMO it would be good to specify if these situations raise an exception, warn, or are silent no-ops.

Author: Done

``memoryview`` returned by the method
and returns it to the C caller. Similarly, if Python code calls the
``__buffer__`` method on an instance of a C class that
implements ``bf_getbuffer``, the returned buffer is wrapped in a
``memoryview`` for consumption by Python code.

The ``__release_buffer__`` method should be called when a caller no
longer needs the buffer returned by ``__buffer__``. It corresponds to the
``bf_releasebuffer`` C slot. This is an
optional part of the buffer protocol.
The Python signature for this method is
``def __release_buffer__(self, buffer: memoryview, /) -> None: ...``.
The buffer to be released is wrapped in a ``memoryview``. When this
method is invoked through CPython's buffer API (for example, through
calling ``memoryview.release`` on a ``memoryview`` returned by
``__buffer__``), the passed ``memoryview`` is the same object
as was returned by ``__buffer__``. It is
also possible to call ``__release_buffer__`` on a C class that
implements ``bf_releasebuffer``.

If ``__release_buffer__`` exists on an object,
Python code that calls ``__buffer__`` directly on the object must
call ``__release_buffer__`` on the same object when it is done

> with the buffer.  Similarly, it is a programming error

Author: ```suggestion
with the buffer. Otherwise, resources used by the object may
not be reclaimed. Similarly, it is a programming error
```
